# To-do list web app
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/K0uNKoH0hjo
#### Description:
This project is a to-do list web application, which enables users to create account and then add / delete their own tasks. The app was created using cs50 IDE. The back-end was designed in python using flask framework. The front-end of the app is modest and consists of few html files. It has a couple of functionalities such as: creating an account, logging in and out, adding and deleting tasks providing their descriptions and deadlines. The project consists of 2 python files which are app.py and support.py. The main file is app.py, where almost all of the code is written. For example, it is responsible for updating app's database, ensuring that data provided is correct or sending list of tasks for specific user. It contains a few important functions, such as: register, login, logout, index, addtask. Register function is responsible for adding new users to database after making sure they entered correct username and password. The form consists of username, password and confimation. All of these has to be provided, username can't be already used and password and its confimation have to match. Login function enables users to login to the application in order to create/modify their to-do lists. This function also makes sure that username and passwords are provided. Then, it checks if username exists and the password is valid using check_password_hash function, because passwords in database are hashed for security. Logout function is simple and short, but very important and it enables user to log out from his account. Index function is responsible for displaying actual list of tasks for each user, including position, description and deadline. What's more, the list is displayed in sorted order by the deadline, so that we can see tasks which we need to do first. To access the list of tasks, user has to be logged in. Next to each task on the list there is a delete button, which enables users to delete tasks that have been already finished / outdated. Last but not least, the addTask function enables users to update their do-to list. It checks if the data was provided and whether it is correct. For example, the deadline of the task can not be smaller than actual date. The database has been made in sqlite3 and consists of 2 tables, users and tasks. The first of them contains every user's username and password, which is hashed. The second table contains description, deadline and id of the user, which is a foreign key. The support.py file is a supporting file where login_required function is.
In templates directory there are a few html files. Login.html and register.html provide a form which enable users to enter their username and password. AddTask.html enables user to add task to their to-do list by submitting description and deadline. Error.html informs user if something went wrong by displaying appropriate message. Index.html is responsible for showing the list of tasks, on condition user is logged in. In order to do that, there is a loop written in jinja that displays every task from the database. And finally, layout.html provides a menu bar that makes it possible to access the app's functionalities. The menu bar was created using bootstrap. The layout design makes the menu bar appear on every page of the app. Other html files are extensions of the layout.html file.
It is likely I will improve the project in the future. I am planning to enable users to change their passwords, delete their accounts, creating history of their tasks. What's more, I will definitely work on the visual part of the project, which leaves a lot to be desired.